All right, let's create our very first Jenkins job to create a job.
Click this new item on the top left.
Give a name of the job.
I'm going to give the name very fast.
Jenkins job.
Select Free Style Project.
Scroll down, click.
Okay.
So there are a lot of sections in the Jenkins job and we are going to go through all of it as we go
through the course.
For now, scroll down to this build step.
So this build is the heart of Jenkins job.
It tells Jenkins what to do.
Click this arrow and you have multiple options here.
Execute Windows, Batch Command, execute Shell and Gretel, etc. Select execute shell.
And here you can give any shell command.
So if you think about it, anything at the end of the day could be a shell command.
You want to install some external library, you could run a shell command to do that.
You want to compile your Java program.
You can run a shell command to do that.
You want to zip something.
You could run a shell command to do that.
You can even run Kubernetes command, which at the end of the day is a shell command to install something
on Kubernetes.
But more on that fancy stuff later on.
Let's just start with Hello World so I'm just going to type echo hello world from Jenkins.
Scroll down click Save.
At this point, the job is created, but it has not built to run the job or build the job.
Click build now.
And that will run the job.
And the job runs will come under billed history.
Every time you run a job, a new version number will come in.
So if I run, build now again, you should see number two.
How do you see the outputs from the job?
You can simply click this pound one and then go to console output and here it says the command it executed
is echo all from Jenkins and the output is hello world from Jenkins and the job finished successfully.
Alternatively, from this screen you can select this down arrow and directly select console output and
you can also delete this build, edit, all that stuff.
You can click go back to the project if you want to edit the job, click configure.
Scroll down.
And we can edit the jobs.
Click Save.
And if you click Build now, the version three will appear with our newly typed message.
So if I click this icon click console output.
Here you go.
Hello, all from Jenkins.
Dave hops, rocks.
All right.
First Jenkins job in the books.
That's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and girls in the next lecture by.